---
layout: post
title: "Introducing rubato"
subtitle: "The Modern 2D Game Engine for Python"
description: After 15 months of hard work and dedication, we are thrilled to announce the stable release of our modern 2D game engine for Python.
author: martin
---

Get ready to revolutionize your game development experience with rubato!
After 15 months of hard work and dedication, we are thrilled to announce the stable release of our modern 2D game engine for Python.

Rubato is more than just a game engine - it's a platform for creativity and expression.
The name "rubato" is a musical term that indicates a phrase that should be performed expressively and freely, and we've designed our engine to give you that same freedom to create and explore.
Whether you're a beginner just starting out in game design or a seasoned developer looking for a new tool to bring your ideas to life, rubato is the perfect solution.

With its intuitive design, powerful features, and comprehensive documentation, rubato streamlines the game development process and empowers users to achieve their creative goals.
So why wait? [Get started](https://docs.rubato.app/latest/intro) with rubato today and experience the most exciting and fulfilling game development journey of your life!

{{ site.bar }}

## Powerful Features Out of the Box

Built using Cython and SDL2, rubato offers great performance without compromising on the intuitive nature of Python code.

One of the standout features of rubato is its native rigidbody support, which enables easy 2D physics simulations with complex geometries.
This, coupled with hardware acceleration, antialiasing, and fixed-step processing, makes rubato a powerful tool for building performant games.

In addition to its powerful features, rubato also makes it easy to distribute your games with PyInstaller support built-in.
And with comprehensive documentation and step-by-step guides, anyone can get started and achieve their goals with rubato, regardless of their coding background.

## A Supportive Community

At rubato, we believe that community is key to driving innovation and growth.
That's why we're dedicated to providing a supportive and welcoming environment for game developers of all levels.
Whether you're just starting out in game development or you're a seasoned pro, we encourage you to join our community and share your knowledge, skills, and experience.

If you have questions or just want to share what you've made with rubato, you can join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/rdce5GXRrC) to get in touch with us and interact with other members of the rubato community.
You can also follow us on Twitter [@rubatopy](https://twitter.com/rubatopy) for devlogs, feature updates, and to stay up to date on what's happening with rubato.

In addition to providing support and resources for our users, we also welcome contributions to our documentation and codebase.
We believe that by working together, we can build something truly amazing with rubato.

## Exciting Plans for the Future

As we continue to grow and evolve, we have a number of exciting plans for the future of rubato.
We want to continuously improve and expand the engine, and we welcome feedback and suggestions from our users.
We're constantly working to make rubato more powerful, efficient, and user-friendly.

One of the major areas of focus for us is the physics engine.
Some of the improvements we're planning on making in the near future include adding rotational physics and minimizing the number of collision checks to improve performance. With these improvements, you'll be able to create even more realistic and complex physics simulations in your games.

However, our top priority right now is growing and fostering our community of developers.
As a small team, we don't have the resources or investment to engage in widespread PR efforts, which is why we rely on the support of our users to spread the word about rubato.
If you're excited about the capabilities and potential of our game engine, we encourage you to share your enthusiasm with others.
Talk about rubato with your friends, tweet about it, write articles, organize talks, and share this blog post!
Every little bit helps to raise awareness of rubato and bring more users into our community.
Together, we can build something truly amazing with rubato.

**Get ready to unleash your creativity and make your wildest game design dreams a reality with rubato. We can't wait to see what you'll create!**
